So, guys, now let us discuss something about a special pointer called Breakpoint.
So Break is actually a special pointer, which is maintained by the operating system, part process.
Right.
And it points to the top of heap memory segment.
So you can see in the diagram on the right hand side, the portion that is in white is the heap memory
segment of the process that does the space.
So you can see that this arrow represents the start of the heap memory segment.
And we already know that as process claims more memory from the operating system, the heap memory segment
of the process grows upwards right now, going by the definition of break pointer breakpoint.
That is a pointer which is maintained by operating system, part process.
So for one process, there will going to be one break pointer and break pointer points to the top of
the heap memory segment.
So you can see in this diagram that the big pointer will restore this address.
That is the topmost address of the Heap memory segment.
So breakpoint that points up to which memory is being used by the process and the memory which is above
the break pointer is not a valid memory to be used by the process.
Right.
So any memory which is above the pointer is actually the memory which is unusable by the process breakpoint
or moves towards higher address.
Increasing the heat memory region as process claims more memory from the operating system.
So I guess the big pointer reminds you of XP, right?
So what E.S.P was to the stack memory is what Blak Pointer is to the Heat memory.
So Breakpoint Pointer moves back towards Lobert address as process frees the memory.
Right?
So it is important to understand the concept of breakpoint there, because we will going to discuss
the internal implementation of Mallock and free API and to understand the internal implementation,
you must have an idea regarding how Breakpoint works.